Clarify guidance on operations having data-dependent output shapes (#193)
data-apis/array-api: spec/design_topics/data_dependent_output_shapes.md

(data-dependent-output-shapes)=

# Data-dependent output shapes

> Array libraries which build array computation graphs commonly employ static analysis that relies upon known shapes. For example, JAX requires known array sizes when compiling code, in order to perform static memory allocation. Functions and operations which are value-dependent present difficulties for such libraries, as array sizes cannot be inferred AOT without also knowing the contents of the respective arrays.

Reviewer: Let's avoid acronyms 🙂 
```suggestion
Array libraries which build array computation graphs commonly employ static analysis that relies upon known shapes. For example, JAX requires known array sizes when compiling code, in order to perform static memory allocation. Functions and operations which are value-dependent present difficulties for such libraries, as array sizes cannot be inferred ahead of time without also knowing the contents of the respective arrays.
```

> Array libraries which build array computation graphs commonly employ static memory allocation techniques for performance optimization. In order to efficiently perform static memory allocation, such libraries must be able to infer array sizes during ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation. Functions and operations which are value-dependent present difficulties for such libraries, as array sizes cannot be inferred AOT without also knowing the contents of the respective arrays.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I would describe what Dask uses known shapes for as "static memory allocation," though it does indeed have major performance implications nonetheless.

It's also a little confusing to use "ahead-of-time compilation" here because in JAX it actually arises for just-in-time compilation, too.

Static shapes are definitely relevant for performance, but they are also relevant just for having a sane data model, e.g., something you could imagine verifying with a static type checker. My suggested revision:

```suggestion
Array libraries which build array computation graphs commonly employ static analysis that relies upon known shapes. For example, JAX requires known array sizes when compiling code, in order to perform static memory allocation. Functions and operations which are value-dependent present difficulties for such libraries, as array sizes cannot be inferred AOT without also knowing the contents of the respective arrays.
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, @shoyer!

While value-dependent functions and operations are not impossible for array computation graph libraries to implement, this specification does not want to impose an undue burden on such libraries and permits omission of value-dependent operations. All other array libraries are expected, however, to implement the value-dependent operations included in this specification in order to be array specification compliant.

Value-dependent operations are demarcated in this specification using an admonition similar to the following:

:::{admonition} Data-dependent output shape
:class: important

> The shape of the output array for this function/operation depends on the data values in the input array; hence, libraries that build array computation graphs (e.g., JAX, Dask, etc.) may find this function/operation difficult to implement without knowing array values. Accordingly, such libraries may choose to omit this function. See {ref}`data-dependent-output-shapes` section for more details.

Reviewer: Why do we need to refer to the same page while we're already on it? 
```suggestion
The shape of the output array for this function/operation depends on the data values in the input array; hence, libraries that build array computation graphs (e.g., JAX, Dask, etc.) may find this function/operation difficult to implement without knowing array values. Accordingly, such libraries may choose to omit this function.
```

Author: This was an example admonition. :)
